[Music]
hey ever wondered why phones changed
their size over time
just like eyebrows large in the 80s tiny
in the 2000s
and now thick again go figure well
there's a reason for that
and for loads of more interesting facts
you've probably never heard about
before the 19th century scientists were
called natural philosophers
because the concept of science wasn't
invented yet
fear can be passed down through
generations scientists discovered it by
training mice to be afraid of a cherry
blossom smell
when new babies were born they had a
similar fearful response
a single strand of hair can hold a deck
of cards
and a full head of human hair could hold
two hippos
with no hairs broken or follicles pulled
out
oranges are a subtropical fruit and
their color
depends on where they grow in four
season climates
their original green color turns orange
when it gets cold
but in places where it's always hot they
remain green
you get the chills while listening to
your favorite music
because your body releases a chemical
called dopamine
it's associated with pleasure and
motivation
in 1997 scientists from cornell
university developed the world's tiniest
functioning guitar it was the size of a
human cell
in 2005 an australian institute made a
study on the mysterious disappearance
of workplace teaspoons
an average lightning bolt has enough
energy to toast about one hundred
thousand slices of bread
the top speed of the first american race
car was seven and a half miles per hour
the automobile had its first race in
november 1895.
barbed wire appeared in 1867.
it was a cheap fencing solution and it
ended up putting many cowboys out of
business
you need to use more than 200 muscles to
take a single step
donald weeder was the inventor of
plastic eggs and plastic grass
he holds a total of 1 397 patents in the
u.s alone
thomas edison only held 1093
u.s patents which reminds me
thomas edison didn't actually invent the
light bulb
sir humphrey davey joseph swann and
several other inventors experimented
with electricity long before
edison worked with their theories found
a solution which actually worked
and then commercialized it
he changes water density that's why cold
water makes a higher pitch sound when
you're pouring it
than hot water a 2011 study states that
we're just one out of the 8.7 million
species
that have ever existed on earth and 86
percent of them are yet to be described
for years maps showed an island that
didn't exist
it was a small land mass the size of
manhattan in the south pacific
ocean it was discovered in 1876
and later added to all maps it wasn't
until 2012
when a group of australian researchers
found out the island
didn't actually exist
tornadoes can occur over big bodies of
water and then move toward land
in this case they're likely to carry
large amounts of water
and aquatic creatures that's when it can
rain
fish such tornadoes are known as water
spouts
sweat doesn't have a smell the culprit
is the bacteria on our skin
they break down sweat into acids which
causes that
unpleasant odor
after scientists gathered and examined
all the data about the bermuda triangle
they made a curious conclusion vessels
are no more likely to disappear in the
bermuda triangle
than anywhere else in the ocean
frederick groff was the chief engineer
who came up with the idea of the fire
hydrant in the 1800s
ironically the patent on his invention
was lost in a fire in 1836
pluto the furthest dwarf planet from the
sun
was discovered in 1930 it takes 248
earth years for the planet to complete
one orbit around the sun so technically
pluto will have its first birthday since
we've discovered it
in 2178.
sharks appeared long before trees the
oldest tree species as we know them
today
go back 350 million years and
toothy sea creatures have been cruising
the oceans for more than 400 million
years
every time you shuffle a deck of cards
you get a combination that's never
existed
your chance of shuffling a deck of cards
into the same order
is one followed by 68 zeros
phones keep getting bigger and bigger
because of us users
not so many people want their phones to
be easy to grasp and carry
most prefer to have large devices and
use them for reading
playing games and watching videos
in the 1870s cats were hired to deliver
mail in a small city in belgium
but their career didn't last long while
one cat could reach its destination in
five hours
others took up to a day to arrive
the average person has seven social
media accounts nowadays
in 2012 this number was more than twice
smaller
the little bluebird on twitter's logo is
named larry
pardon my tartle is a uniquely scottish
expression
you're supposed to use it when you meet
someone familiar but can't recollect
their name
but you can only say it if you
eventually figure out who this person is
polar bears are classified as marine
mammals
scientists can also extract their dna
from their footprints
in 2008 a 19 year old from the uk
legally changed his name to captain
fantastic
faster than superman spiderman batman
wolverine hulk
and the flash combined needs a nickname
definitely
your brain is responsible for sending
messages through your nerves
these signals travel between 1 and 268
miles per hour
johnny d francesco holds the guinness
world record for the cheesiest pizza
his masterpiece contained 154 varieties
of cheese
ravens chimpanzees and monkeys can feel
when someone's watching them
it's called the theory of mind
baby carrots are regular carrots that
have been chopped off
they appeared in 1986 when a farmer's
carrots grew deformed and he couldn't
sell them
to solve this problem he took out his
potato peeler and rebranded them
mosquitoes can find you by your smell
a newly invented repellent spray doesn't
make your scent unattractive
it makes you invisible to insects
batman's online screen name is john doe
basketball got its name from actual
baskets
in the past the hoops were peach baskets
attached to wooden panels
they were finally replaced with metal
rings and nets in the 1900s
chip bags are pumped with nitrogen to
preserve the freshness of the snack
and to prevent chips from breaking
during transportation
there are up to 27 000 eating
establishments in new york city alone
it would take you 71 years if you
decided to eat in a new place every day
artist yvonne albrecht was so
detail-oriented his work
that he often used a single-haired brush
to create a wrinkle or an eyelash
it could take him a day to finish a part
of a painting as big as an
sd card
[Music]
57 percent of internet users have
googled themselves
how about you what was the first thing
that showed up
let me know down in the comments
the microwave was invented by accident
when
engineer perry spencer walked by a radar
and a candy bar in his pocket melted
and the first food cooked in a microwave
on purpose was
popcorn what else
apollo 11 astronauts went through
customs after coming back from the moon
they had to declare everything they had
brought with them moon dust
moon rocks and whatever else they had
found on the earth satellite
and finally this tidbit recent studies
prove
coffee hydrates you almost as much as
water